---
qip: 11 
title: "Denomination ideograms for Quanta and Shor as svg, webfonts"
layer: brand
author: Jack Matier (@jackalyst)
comments_uri: https://github.com/theQRL/qips/pull/23
comments_summary: 
status: "draft/withdrawn"
layer: na
created: 2020-01-16
superceded_by: 
---

## Motivation

Ideograms are useful in conveying an idea or concept which is independent of any particular language. 

Doing so as an SVG allows for usage in a wide variety of mediums. Further creating a webfont hosted either locally or from popular third-party services has the added advantage of being able to be easy to implement.

## Specification

The reference asset format should follow the Scalable Vector Graphic (SVG v1.1) standard which has a wide userbase and can be incorporated into a font and hosted either locally and/or on third-party services.

This will be then compiled into the Web Open Font Format (woff) and Web Open Font Format 2 (woff2) standards.

In order to qualify whether a prospective ideogram is symbolic as a currency, it should be tested against a diverse background of people from different regions with a positive result being that it's recognised as a currency.

For the test, every positive result can be recorded as 1 and negative as 0. These results would then be compiled and an average established with the final resulting floating point value between a 0 and 1. An overall result that's greater than a value that's to be determined through discussions will signify whether the ideogram works to represent a currency in a series of short-listing rounds.

## Backward compatibility

Both SVG 1.1 and Woff/Woff2 are open standards and offer wide support.

## Implementation

1. Quanta and Shor ideograms should be uploaded as a gist in the SVG format and linked to in a comment as part of the comments-uri thread of this QIP.

2. A diverse team will be elected to do an initial round of testing as specified in the specification portion of this QIP with a process where the submitter of the ideogram wont be identified.

3. Ideograms would be short-listed and tested against a wider audience less familiar with QRL and short-listed further.

4. A vote would take place to identify favourite currency ideograms

5. The selected ideograms would be cleaned up and made into respective woff and woff2 files.